---
layout: page
title: Debugging and Monitoring
permalink: /simple_sourcing_debugging.html
---

## Logging

Logging in Simple Sourcing, as in Kafka Streams is done through the [SLF4J](https://www.slf4j.org/manual.html) abstraction layer.
A common choice for logging implementations that works with SLF4J is [Logback](https://logback.qos.ch/index.html).

If you use Logback, the `logback.xml` configuration file can be used to control the logging verbosity of messages generated by both Kafka streams and Simple Sourcing.

Add the following `logback.xml` file to your application resources folder:
```xml
<configuration>
    <appender name="STDOUT" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
        <encoder>
            <pattern>%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%thread] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n</pattern>
        </encoder>
    </appender>
    <logger name="org.apache.kafka" level="WARN"/>
    <logger name="org.apache.kafka.common.metrics" level="WARN"/>
    <root level="INFO">
        <appender-ref ref="STDOUT" />
    </root>
</configuration>
```

## Broker access

Docker manages connections between all the Docker containers. However if you want to access the Kafka broker
from outside a container, there's one extra step required. Kafka is very specific about the hostname
it listens on - it must match the value specified via the `KAFKA_ADVERTISED_LISTENERS` environment variable.

If you are using Docker for Mac >= 1.12, Docker for Linux, or Docker for Windows 10, then please add the following lines
to `/etc/hosts` or `C:\Windows\System32\Drivers\etc\hosts`:

```bash
127.0.0.1	broker
```

Once that's added you can then run and debug your Kafka Streams app in your favorite IDE connecting to the Kafka
broker running within docker.

## Clearing state

Often during development you'll make incompatible changes to your domain model schemas. When running locally, the easiest
approach to handle these changes is to blow away the old environment.

```bash
docker-compose down
rm -r /tmp/kafka-streams
docker-compose up -d
```
